Wildfire, also called forest, bush or vegetation fire, can be described as any uncontrolled and non-prescribed combustion or burning of plants in a natural setting such as a forest, grassland, brush land or tundra, which consumes the natural fuels and spreads based on environmental conditions.Forests fires are as old as the forests themselves. They pose a threat not only to the forest wealth but also to the entire regime to fauna and flora seriously disturbing the bio-diversity and the ecology and environment of a region. During summer, when there is no rain for months, the forests become littered with dry senescent leaves and twinges, which could burst into flames ignited by the slightest spark. The Himalayan forests, particularly, Garhwal Himalayas have been burning regularly during the last few summers, with colossal loss of vegetation cover of that region.A tragedy continues to unfold across the Amazon. Tens of thousands of fires are raging across the region, destroying large swathes of forest in Brazil, Bolivia and Peru. Unlike boreal forests, the Amazon is not adapted to fire, which means that burnt forests may take centuries to recoup the lost indigenous trees, wildlife and carbon-storing capacity.
Forest fires can vastly upset the ecological balance; being paired with other factors like global warming can add fuel to this problem. As an attempt to effectively reduce and prevent these natural calamity, we propose to create a model which can analyse, predict and prevention forest fires.
The model can be implemented using machine learning with Pandas in Python. A dataset, obtained from Kaggle, is use to train a model. This model can be used to  analyse the calamity and how it has affected the area.Further graphs can be plotted from the input data which shows the range of destruction it has caused and its frequency; thus finding areas which are more susceptible to forest fires. These specific areas can be further examined and the root cause of the origin of forest fires. IBM Watson Studio can be a great alternative for Pandas. Further utilising IBM services like IoT peripherals, and cloud services, we can implement drones to help firefighters extinguishing fires and help to detect people or animals that might be under threat to fires.

Inorder to detect the forest fires we can use IR Cameras.MWIR infrared (IR) cameras can be used to detect heat and with particular algorithms can detect hot-spots within a scene as well as flames for both detection and prevention of fire and risks of fire.A drone helps you decide within minutes the type and amount of resources to send to the scene of a forest fire.Some drones are also equipped with thermal sensors, which use infrared radiation to help first responders locate heat signatures of humans and fire hotspots that show where fires are most likely to spread.Drones are not meant to put out a fire. They assist firefighters to identify hot-spots and based on that firefighters direct their efforts. Drones are just a tool that helps firefighters to do their job.
